-You're about to do
what is my dream tour.
You're going to Europe
to do stand-up in Europe,
and you're also going
in the winter.
-Are you one of those Americans
that just automatically thinks
they're smarter over there?
'Cause you gotta go --
'Cause everybody American goes,
"Oh, my God, the food and
the people are so enlightened."
You go over there,
it's some idiot
eating fish and chips,
screaming about soccer
or whatever.
It's like, "I know that guy.
I've seen that guy," you know?
It's like everybody's over there
in, like, lab coats,
figuring stuff out.
They're not.
[ Laughter ]
Everything is so much older
and so much cultured.
They still get on social media
and trash each other.
[ Laughter ]
-Are you going to any places?
You've obviously toured a lot
over there before.
Are you going places
you've never been?
-Yes, this is like a thrash.
I'm going through
Eastern Europe -- like Estonia.
I'm doing Prague, Bosnia.
Poland is a big one
I wanted to go to.
-Do you go in
with an expectation?
Do you think to yourself,
"Oh, a Bosnian audience
will like this part of my act?"
Or you do just go in and do
exactly what you would do?
-I act like I'm right here,
because if you go over there --
The first time I did London,
like, I was just in my head
the whole time.
I'd have, like, a joke
coming up about, like --
and it involved a squirrel,
and then, in my head,
I'd be like, "Do they have
squirrels over here?
Did I see a squirrel?
Is this going to bomb?"
And I would be,
like, freaking out.
And then, I swear to God,
you pull back and
then they'd pull back,
and then it just becomes
like this staring contest.
So I just act like I'm here.
I use references, I use slang,
and I just go until it bombs.
And then I make fun of it
that they didn't get it,
and then I just go again.
[ Laughter ]
But I've gotten
some of the funniest...
I was in Stockholm, Sweden,
one time,
and I was onstage
and there was some guy...
I was saying, "All right,
what do I do after this?
Where should I go?"
Blah-blah, blah-blah, blah-blah.
And I just hear this guy
in the crowd yells out.
He goes, "Come to my house!
We'll have a party!"
[ Laughter ]
I was just like, "Yeah, I think
I'm going to skip that one."
[ Laughter ]
I don't think I'm gonna meet you
anywhere, buddy.
But they had
a great sense of humor.
And I remember when I did
Stockholm --
uh, uh, Stockholm, Sweden --
I came out and I said, "Hey,
it's great to be here
in Switzerland."
And they all laughed,
thinking I was joking,
and I just played it off.
I was like, "Aw, [Bleep]."
[ Laughter ]
"So, anyways, I, uh..."
-Do you feel a bigger rush?
Is there something, you know,
when you think about all
the small rooms you played here
and where you're from,
and when you go over
to a whole nother country,
do you have a rush of,
"I can't believe
I'm killing it in a foreign
country in a big crowd"?
-Yeah, definitely,
but I always had that thing,
you know, you have a job to do,
these people paid for a sitter.
They're coming out
in that thing,
and I'm always trying
to get, like, better.
But there's definitely --
I've been starting to add
some shows over there,
and it's just like, you know,
it's YouTube, it's Netflix.
Like, your stuff
can just go international.
And I definitely feel blessed
that I can go to these places,
make a little bit of money,
you know,
and, yeah, meet
all these different people.
-Can you enjoy yourself
the day of?
Like, if you -- Obviously,
you're going city to city,
so you don't have a lot of time.
If you have a show at night
in Prague,
can you go out and
enjoy a day in Prague,
or are you in your head about
the fact that you got a show?
-Probably not, 'cause
this is my first time there.
The first time there
is always just
you go there
like, you know, an animal,
sleeping on a futon
and all that.
Then, you build a following.
Then, I can bring my wife,
you know?
She shows up once
all the land's been cleared,
all the hard work's done.
[ Laughter ]
"No, I want to go.
That seems like fun."
[ Laughter ]
I didn't bring her.
She'd probably buy
some stupid antique over there,
and I got to figure out
how to bring it
halfway across the world.
[ Laughter ]
"But I like it."
-You break even
on the whole trip
'cause you got an old piano.
-That's the word
that's gonna kill me earlier
is gonna be "why."
That's what my wife always does.
"Do you like this?"
"No, I don't like it.
It's a piece of [Bleep].
Don't get it."
And then she's always
just like, "Why?"
[ Laughter ]
"But I like it."
And then, it's just like,
"All right, buy it!"
"No, but I want you
to like it, too."
And it's just like --
there's just no winning.
-You're a licensed
helicopter pilot.
-Yes, I am.
-This is true.
How long has this been the case?
-Um, I got it in 2014 or 2015.
I can't remember.
-What made you want to become
a licensed helicopter pilot?
-A conspiracy theory and
living in Los Angeles.
-What is the conspiracy theory
that led you to it?
-Well I'm not into --
Like, you know, people think
if you're into
conspiracy theory,
they just automatically think
that you think, you know,
there's lizard people
and shape-shifters
and you have
this aluminum hat on.
No, I just sort of read up
on the banking system,
and I'm like, "This is kind of
a giant Ponzi scheme."
[ Laughter ]
And you know,
I was living in L.A.,
And I was just looking at us
like, "You can't get out
of this city
even when it works.
Like, what if [Bleep]
ever hit the fan?
How do I get out of here?"
And it just seemed like
up and out was
the only way to do it, so...
-Yeah.
[ Cheers and applause ]
-I think you know.
-Yeah, but then, I always
watched "Magnum, P.I.,"
and I always liked TC,
and he flew that Huey 500,
which I thought was cool.
And I'm also sort of
a closet gearhead,
where I don't know
a lot of stuff,
but I watch videos
of people repairing engines.
And I just really got into it,
and next thing you know,
I'm flying around
in those things.
-I guess my question
would be, though,
based on your escape plan,
do you have your own helicopter?
-No, there's
a lot of holes in it.
[ Laughter ]
-This is not enough
for your family.
[ Laughter ]
-I know. I know.
But I can only afford --
I just rent those things.
It's just like --
Yeah, that's the thing.
There's another thing, too.
Whenever you watch,
like, a zombie movie
and some guy comes running up
to, like, a plane --
a helicopter, I should say --
and just starts it up
like he's getting
in, like, you know, a Corvette
and just drives away,
that's not how it works.
You got to warm
the whole thing up.
You'd have to kill
half the zombies
by the time you went through
your preflight,
just to get up and out of there.
I didn't know that,
so I went ahead and I did it.
And I will tell you,
it's one of the big
accomplishments in my life,
'cause I was terrible in school.
But that was something
that I was actually --
I wasn't worried
about learning how the fly it.
It was the ground school and
all the rules you had to know.
But I was so interested
and it was so fascinating,
I was actually able to do it.
So, you know....
-Well, fantastic.
And congratulations on that.
-Thank you.
-Congrats on the show.
Have a great trip to Europe.
-Oh, thank you very much.
-It's always a pleasure
to see you.
-I'm grateful
we finally did this.
-Bill Burr, everybody!